This is life-changing - out of appreciation to the author and
uptowork.com, here is a w3m dump of the article. This made a huge change
in my life, and I never want to forget it.

https://uptowork.com/blog/software-engineer-resume

Author
Tom Gerencer

----------------------------------------------------------------------


Welcome to your new office. There's your brand new Herman Miller chair. Your
SSD laptop with vertical and horizontal monitors. Your business credit card.



Down the hall is a staff kitchen like something from the Zuckerberg mansion.
There's free food. Free laundry. Free massages.



Basically, you've nailed a job at a unicorn company.



And it all started with a software engineer resume that stood out like Linus
Torvalds.



Now. How can you make that dream a reality?



It's simple. Just show that great company how much they need you.



This guide will demonstrate:



  • A software engineering resume example better than 9 out of 10 other
    resumes.
  • How to write a software engineer resume that will land you more interviews.
  • Tips and examples of how to put skills and achievements on a software
    engineer resume.
  • How to describe your experience on a resume for a software engineer to get
    any job you want.



Here's a sample resume for a software engineer made using our resume builder.



Want to save time and have your resume ready in 5 minutes? Try our resume
builder. It’s fast and easy to use. Plus, you'll get tips and right vs. wrong
examples while writing your resume. See +20 resume templates and create your
resume here.



best software engineer resume sample

Software Engineer Resume Example - See +20 resume templates and create your
resume here.



1

What's the Best Format for a Software Engineer Resume?



The best example of a software engineer resume is one that gets the interview.



Yet recruiters, and especially those at unicorn companies, spend only six
seconds looking at each resume.



That's why you must use a resume format that grabs on like a LogMeIn connection
and doesn't let go.



Use the reverse-chronological layout. It front-loads your strengths, showing
all your best moments at a glance.



To make it really pop, use clear, legible fonts and plenty of white space.



Finally, save your software developer resume in PDF format. That'll keep your
layout intact as it travels through cyberspace.



Pro Tip: PDFs are the way to go unless they conflict with the company's
Applicant Tracking System. How can you know? Check the job listing.



Not completely sold on the reverse-chronological resume format? See our guide:
3 Resume Formats: How to Choose the Best One [Examples]



2

How to Write a Resume Summary or Resume Objective



Many career experts say, "When writing a software engineer resume, don't use a
resume summary or objective statement."



Those career experts are wrong.



A generic summary or objective will make recruiters yawn.



But a good one will grab hiring managers like a sudo command.



Use a resume summary if you've got lots of experience.



Use a resume objective if you're a new graduate or you're switching careers.



Let's start with the resume summary for a software developer. It's a highlights
reel of your best shining moments.



But there's a right way and a wrong way to do it.



Two Senior Software Engineer Resume Summary Examples



Look at the two very different software engineer resume examples below:



                                     wrong
Software engineer with 7+ years experience, skilled in C++, ASP.NET, SQL, Java,
Python, Javascript, C#, Perl, and PHP, looking for a position as a software
developer for Oracle.



Okay, it sounds impressive. But it's got a fatal error. It's just like all the
others. No wonder career experts say to avoid it!



Now try this short sample, from a much better software developer resume:



                                     right
Results-Focused Software Engineer



Energetic software engineer with 7+ years experience developing robust code for
high-volume businesses. Increased code-efficiency of XYZ Corp customer portal
by 55%. Boosted customer retention by 25%. Spearheaded a team that won the 2016
BOSSIE Award for cloud computing. An enthusiastic team player and deep creative
thinker.



Wow, right? So do you need to win a BOSSIE to get the job? No. Just sift
through your past and find those glowing moments that scream, "Hire this
genius!"



Start with a deep, brainstormed file of all your "selling points." Then, when
writing your software engineer resume summary section, use the 3 or 4 that
match the job description.



Our resume builder will give you tips and examples on how to write your resume
summary or any other section. Plus, it's got a super flexible and easy text
editor that lets you create a customized resume in no time. Check out how it
works:



Inside our resume builder you will find examples for your resume and tons of
other useful features. Give it a try and see how easy it is!



How to Write a Resume Objective for an Entry Level Software Engineer



Maybe your work experience is as thin as a healthcare company firewall. Don't
sweat it. Use a resume objective. It's the way to go for fresh graduates or
those looking for a new niche.



Use these two very different software engineer resumes as a starting point:



Two Entry Level Computer Science Resume Examples



                                     wrong
Looking for a job as a software engineer because I've got a degree in it, I
have studied 23 programming languages like everyone else, and I'm extremely
good, trust me.



That's not a resume objective statement. It's a one-way ticket to the recycle
bin. Now of course you won't do that, but if you don't get really specific,
that's how it'll read.



Think measurable details like in the software developer resume objective below:



                                     right
Team player software engineer with a can-do attitude, phenomenal time
management skills, and a strong user focus. Has developed several web and
mobile apps, including a home security system using Raspberry Pi and a webcam.



Wow, right? Specific. But the real key here is whether those strong points
match the job description. If not, flat tire.



But what if you don't have even that much experience? I'll explain the fix for
that in a minute.



Pro Tip: Your resume objective or resume summary is the icing on your job
search cake. Write it last, and include the best bits from the rest of your
resume.



Still fuzzy on how to write a professional resume summary or objective for a
software engineer resume? See the computer science resume template at the top
of this article. Or see our guides: "How To Write A Resume Summary: 21 Best
Examples You Will See" AND "+20 Resume Objective Examples - Use Them on Your
Resume (Tips)"



3

How to Describe Your Software Engineer Experience



Let's circle back to our unicorn company job. The one with lots of breaks and
free Fitbits and a complimentary Kinesis keyboard.



How much do you think experience matters to that company?

If you said, "A lot," gold star.



That's why your software engineer resume's experience section needs to sing
your programming experience from the rooftops.



Put your most recent work first. Showcase 4-5 wins and responsibilities that
fit the job offer.



Glance at the senior software developer resume samples below. They're for a job
opening that values leadership, production, file management, and security.



Senior Software Engineer Resume Examples



                                     right
Senior Software Engineer

CloudWallop Inc.

July 2015 - July 2017



  • Responsible for spearheading teams that handled the software development
    life cycle for 10 client projects, end to end.
  • Built infrastructure to handle millions of client files in proprietary
    systems.
  • Led the drive to implement the Principle of Least Privilege across 100% of
    software development staff.
  • Reduced security breaches by 73% for all customers companywide.
  • Built security into new product features to achieve 100% compliance with
    industry best practices.



See that? The candidate used her experience section to prove she fits the job
like a glove. She also used great action words to do it.



Now look at another senior software engineering resume example.



                                     wrong
Senior Software Engineer

CloudWallop Inc.

July 2015 - July 2017



  • Responsible for leading teams of software developers.
  • Used Java to implement scalable features for client software.
  • Worked independently to meet tight deadlines in a dynamic team environment.
  • Used a solid understanding of web protocols to handle a large workload.
  • Worked on several security projects.



Can you see the problem with that software engineer resume sample? It's
generic. No achievements.



Yet this is the same person and the same job. In the second resume objective
example, she just hasn't figured out the hack yet!



What if You Don't Have Experience?



If you lack experience, don't fret.



It's actually pretty easy to get some.



You can do free projects for small businesses. You can contribute to open
source projects. You can even come up with your own coding activities at home.



Maybe you've designed a home security app for your apartment. To you it was all
in fun. But it might make a hiring manager say, "This kid has drive."



Which of the two junior software engineer resume samples below look more
impressive?



                                     wrong
Freelance Software Engineer

June 2016 - present



  • Received my BA in Software Engineering in 2016.
  • Still trying to build experience. I've sent off 15 software engineer
    resumes so far.
  • You can't blame the job candidate for not having experience. But she could
    have the software engineer experience section below.

                                     right
Freelance Software Engineer

June 2016 - present



  • Composed an app to allow voice control of lights, garage door, and home
    thermostat, using an Amazon Echo and Raspberry Pi.
  • Built a real time stock picking app that compares current price to Uniform
    Adjusted Financial Reporting Standards data to identify buy-now
    opportunities.
  • Built new search functionality into the next generation StratoDB scalable
    database management system.
  • President, XYZ University Young Women in Tech. Facilitated monthly meetings
    to enhance a diverse community in software engineering. Managed activities
    like monthly tech talks, workshops, and student panels.



Here's a great list of GitHub projects beginners can chip in on to build a
little instant PR. And this Quora thread gives suggestions for beginner
projects that add quick experience to any resume.



Pro Tip: Don't lie. If you brag about a skill or experience in your resume,
then can't demonstrate it in the interview, you're toast. Talk up only those
strengths you can prove.



Make your professional software developer resume even better with action words.
See our guide: "+80 Examples of Resume Action Words for Every Profession"



4

Is Your Education Section Underperforming? It Might Be



Unless you went to Harvard or got a 4.0, your education section doesn't matter.



Right?



That's absolutely false.



Your education section doesn't matter if you make it generic.



The education section of your computer engineering resume can be the thing that
gets you hired.



Start off with the basics:



  • College Name and Location.
  • Years in School.
  • Degree.



The magic happens when you add your list of college "wins." Just like with work
experience, make a master list of your achievements first.



Then, pick those 4-6 items that best fit the job description.



Can you spot the difference between these two software developer resume
samples?



Two Java Developer Resume Examples



                             wrong
2012-2015 BA, Software Engineering

University of Washington Bothell



  • Received a BA in Software Engineering
  • Took classes in C#, C++, Java, PHP, SQL, Perl, Python, Ruby.
  • GPA 3.7
  • Worked in the cafeteria.



As generic as a no-name box of noodles. It could be anyone.



Now clap your eyes on a software developer resume example that grabs the
recruiter by the eyeballs:



                                     right
2012-2015 BA, Software Engineering

University of Washington Bothell



  • Pursued my passion for Java server programming through six advanced
    classes.
  • VP of Jugger-Is, the campus machine learning club, 2014-2015.
  • Delivered an actionable webinar on best practices for security in cloud
    servers that was linked to by the popular "Dr. Dobbs Journal."
  • My article, "How Cloud Computing Will Change Your Life" was published in
    the campus magazine.



See?



That second software engineering resume example stands out like red-font
annotation.



The point here isn't that you should go back in time and do all those the
activities. It's that you probably already have an impressive list and you just
aren't using it.



See the computer science resume template at the top of this article for an
example.



Pro Tip: Need help tailoring your software developer resume to the job
description? See this great guide on how to tailor a resume any job offer.



For advice to make your software engineer resume jump out like a neon pop-up
window, see our guide: "How to Put Your Education on a Resume [Tips & Examples]
"



5

How to Put Skills on a Resume for a Software Engineer



Picture you're a hiring manager.



You've got a folder with 250+ junior software engineer resumes.



Do you read every one?



No. You don't.



Like Tony Stark hunting a needle in a haystack, you use a magnet.



In this case, that's an Applicant Tracking System (ATS).



It sends the 75 resumes with the right keywords to another folder, which you
read. The others go to folder #2.



Stay out of folder #2.



Don't worry. I'm going to show you how to pick the right software engineer
resume skills keywords to get you hired.



First, build your master list of every skill you have. Soft skills, hard
skills, any skills at all. You'll refer to it for every software developer
resume you make, so spend a little time on it.



Start with the sample resume keywords list below, then brainstorm your own.
Look at other job offers online for inspiration too.



"Soft" Skills     "Hard" Skills          Languages
Creativity        Web Development        Java
Leadership        Data Structures        SQL
Communication     Open Source Experience C#
Critical Thinking Coding                 Java Script
Calm Demeanor     Security               C++
Collaboration     Machine Learning       Python
Inquisitiveness   Debugging              iOS
Enthusiasm        Problem Solving        PHP
Positive Attitude PHP                    Ruby/Rails



Next, read the job offer. From a LinkedIn job description, we pulled the
following skills keywords:



Skills



Problem analysis, problem solving, distributed systems knowledge, Java, Java
debugging, troubleshooting, open source knowledge, interpersonal,
self-motivated.



Last, match the skills you truly have with the skills list from the job
description. But don't just list them.



Prove them on your software developer resume by weaving them into your
experience and education sections.



Example of Skills on a Software Engineer Resume



Here's how to put skills on a software engineer resume.



Let's say you're applying for a job at Airbnb. It values teamwork, building
full stack applications, creative thinking, data storage skills, and Java.



So, include those in your skills section, experience section, and education
section, like this:



Skills



  • Skilled in teamwork, leadership, creative thinking.
  • Adept at data structures, problem solving, end-to-end coding.
  • Passion for Java, SQL.



Experience



  • Collaborated with multiple teams daily to build full stack applications for
    dozens of clients.
  • Used Java and SQL to build data storage solutions for several high-volume
    businesses.
  • Spearheaded the company idea generation program. Improved efficiency in
    software development life cycle by 38%.



Education



  • Heavy concentration in data structures, Java, SQL.
  • Organized the university hackathon in two consecutive years.
  • Built a mock customer service webapp for a Senior Scholar project.



See how the software engineer resume examples above paint a picture of a
candidate who fills the bill like Larry Page or Bjarne Stroustrup?



Finally, there's no need to fudge your skills. Find honest ways to show you've
got the right stuff for the job. Otherwise you may get tripped up in the
interview.



Pro Tip: Once build a master skills list, you can start your own collection of
software engineer resume templates that fit different skill sets.



To make your computer engineering resume skills section crackle, follow the
resume template at the top of this article. Also, see this guide: "+30 Best
Examples of What Skills to Put on a Resume (Proven Tips)"



6

How to Add Other Sections for an Effective Resume



Got awards, accolades, or certifications and want to put them in your resume?



Add another section.



Call it projects, awards, accolades, hobbies, or whatever seems to fit.



Add only those things that'll make a hiring manager whistle like R2D2.



Look at the examples below from two distinct software engineer resumes:



                                 right
Activities



  • Moderated a security panel at the Developer Week convention in 2014.
  • Shortlisted for a National Center for Women and IT Award in 2015.
  • Member, IAENG Society of Software Engineers since 2013.
  • Attended the Software Engineering Professionals Hackathon in 2015.

                      wrong
Activities



  • Rebuilt a Briggs & Stratton lawnmower engine.
  • Walked dogs at a local shelter three times.
  • Long walks on the beach.



The activities in the first example will make a recruiter say, "She's
passionate. I bet she'll bring that passion to our company."



Why You Need an Online Portfolio



If you make a good enough resume, recruiters will weed-whack a path to your
front steps.



Right?



Sadly, no.



In fact, as G.I. Joe might say, making a great software engineer resume is only
half the battle.



The other half is using it to point to good examples of your work.



That's why you need a solid online portfolio.



For inspiration, see this great software engineer portfolio, or this, or this.



Pro Tip: Use your online portfolio to show off all your projects, then link
specifically to the ones that make the most sense for the job offer at hand.



Want to show off your personality in a "hobbies" section? See our guide: "+20
Best Examples of Hobbies & Interests To Put on a Resume (5 Tips)"



7

How About a Cover Letter for a Software Engineer?



Nobody writes cover letters anymore, right?



That's true. If you're talking about the ones who don't get hired.



A cover letter is the short version of your resume. It tells recruiters whether
you're worth looking at.



Without a cover letter, nearly half of all recruiters will pass by your
professional software engineer resume without a second look.



Here are a couple tips to nail it:



  • Use the recruiter's name.
  • Mention a detail you like about the company.
  • Show how you can help the company.



For that last part, look at the sample below, from a cover letter from a
software developer resume. The position values leadership, communication, and
Java programming.



Example



  • Spearheaded development for a suite of high-volume services in Java.
  • Deployed multiple operating services on Linux.
  • Received a JAX Innovation Award for Java programming, 2014.
  • Implemented pair programming company-wide for a fast-paced development
    firm. Increased efficiency 35% for all software engineers.



Pro Tip: After you send in your resume and cover letter, follow up! A quick
email or phone call can make all the difference. Use findthat.email to dig up
missing contact info.



Plus, a great cover letter that match your resume will give you an advantage
over other candidates. You can write your cover letter in our resume builder
here. Here's what it may look like:

 cover_letter_and_resume_template_for_a_software_engineer

See more templates and create your resume and cover letter here.



Need more tips to help you craft a stellar cover letter for your software
engineer resume? Check out our guide: "Software Engineer Cover Letter: Sample &
Step-by-step Guide [15+ Examples]"



8

How to Add Contact Info to Your Resume



It's easy to add contact info to a software engineer resume. Isn't it?



Not at all.



First add the basics:



  • Full Name
  • Updated Phone Number
  • Professional Email Address



                           right
Tabitha Hirvanen, TabithaHirvanen@gmail.com  - 773-457-2703

              wrong
Tabitha Hirvanen

2053 Cherry Camp Road

Email: TabithaHirvanen@gmail.com

Phone: 773-457-2703



But also include links to your LinkedIn profile and personal portfolio.



Pro Tip: Make your LinkedIn presence sing by following the steps in our guide
to fixing up your LinkedIn profile.



Need more tips to craft a killer resume for a software engineer? Check out our
guide: "How to Make a Resume: A Step-by-Step Guide (+30 Examples)"



Key Takeaway



Tailor your software engineer resume to fit each job opening. For tips on how
to do that, see this excellent guide.



Fit your experience, skills, and education sections to the job description.
Choose measurable, memorable wins from each job, and from your education.



Make an online portfolio, and link to it from your resume. An online portfolio
lets interested recruiters take the next step on their own. That's true whether
you're a junior freelance software developer, or you're writing a resume for a
systems engineer position.


Author
Tom Gerencer

Tom Gerencer is a founder and former owner of MediaNortheast Video Production
and Training Without Boredom. A full-time writer in the fields of personal
finance and career advice, Tom lives in West Virginia with his wife Kathy, two
children and a couple of ornery dogs.

