This is life-changing - out of appreciation to the author and
uptowork.com, here is a w3m dump of the article. This made a huge change
in my life, and I never want to forget it.

https://uptowork.com/blog/software-engineer-cover-letter-example

Author
Michael Tomaszewski

----------------------------------------------------------------------


You’ve just found a software engineering job offer of your dreams.



Great pay, amazing benefits, exciting projects, and, oh God—look at the specs
of their computers!



That’s what you’ve been waiting for your whole professional life. You know
you’d be a great fit. You’ve got the skills and experience they’re looking for.
You know they’d have to be crazy not to hire you.



“To apply for this opportunity, please submit your resume and a cover letter to
jobs@co . . . “



Wait a minute! A cover letter?!



Right, so I’ll need to send the generic copy-paste software engineer cover
letter I’ve written back in the day, and I’m good to go. Nobody’s gonna read
that thing anyway.



That’s what most of your competition is thinking right now. And that’s why
you’ll beat them.



How’s that?



Because you’re about to learn how to write a software engineer cover letter
that gets every employer hooked and lands you that dream gig.



Think it’s hard?



Just give me 5 minutes, and you’ll see it’s not. In this guide, I’ll show you:



  • A software engineer cover letter sample better than 9 out of 10 other cover
    letters.
  • Proven, effective templates and formulas for writing the best software
    engineer cover letter in the pile.
  • How to write a software engineer cover letter step-by-step (even if you
    have no experience.)
  • How to describe your experience in a cover letter for software engineering
    positions and get any job you want.



Here’s a sample software engineer cover letter written in response to a
Software Development Team Lead position.



Sample Software Engineer Cover Letter



Tabitha Hirvanen
Software Engineer
89 Coleman Avenue
San Diego, CA 92103
619-633-0789
Tabitha.Hirvanen@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/tabitha-hirvanen

Mr. Francis Mallman
Head of Technology
XYZ Corp
4222 Driftwood Road
San Diego, CA 90544

San Diego, 2/7/2018

Dear Francis,

Two months ago, I shattered a record I had previously considered unbreakable.
My solutions for developing and optimizing ABC’s flagship apps and online
software helped increase annual mean NPS to a staggering 61.8 (37% increase.)
Soon after that, I came across the opening for Software Development Team Lead
at XYZ Corp. As a lifelong fan of your cutting-edge software solutions, I
immediately knew that this post was the perfect match for my skills and
expertise.

I know your chief focus for the upcoming 18 months will be on developing new
mobile apps for personal finance management. In my current position as IT Team
Lead with ABC Inc., my primary challenge has been to supervise the development
and design of our mobile and desktop applications for flawless user experience.
Here are some of my most recent results:



  • 3 out of 4 apps I developed in 2017 have been rated above 4.7 stars in both
    AppStore and Google Play.
  • Upgraded premium versions of our products increased quarterly revenue by
    86% in 2017 Q4.
  • New Help Desk solutions cut Customer Effort Scores by 31%.



With more than 10 years of experience in software engineering, I am positive I
can help XYZ Corp achieve similar results.

End User Satisfaction has always been the single most important KPI for
measuring my teams’ performance. I know that this value is also the cornerstone
of XYZ’s mission and vision—that’s why I was so excited when I first saw your
opening.

When can we schedule a meeting and discuss how my success at ABC can translate
into IT Happiness growth for you?

Kind Regards,

Tabitha Hirvanen

P.S.—I would also value the opportunity to tell you how I optimized ABC’s
beta-testing workflow to double the Timely Project Delivery scores.



I’ll tell you one thing—



Tabitha is going places. And so can you.



Let’s break down what makes the above cover letter for a software engineer so
great and how you can make an equally great one yourself.



Want to write your engineering cover letter fast? Use our cover letter builder.
Choose from 20+ professional cover letter templates that match your software
engineer resume. See actionable examples and get expert tips along the way.



software engineer cover letter and resume templates

Software Engineer Cover Letter for a Resume—See more cover letter templates and
create your cover letter here.



1

The Perfect Software Engineer Cover Letter Template



So you’ve seen a jaw-dropping software engineer or software developer cover
letter.



But—



What is it exactly that made the hiring manager’s jaw drop?



Tabitha’s achievements? The writing quality?



Yeah, these are important. But not as important as an effective, reliable cover
letter writing formula Tabitha’s applied.



And guess what?



You can make this template for a cover letter work for you as well!



Here’s how:



The Best Software Engineer Cover Letter Template—Checklist



1. Heading



  • Your names, professional title, and contact info.
  • The addressee's details.
  • City and date are optional and a tad old-school, but more conservative
    readers will appreciate them.



2. Salutation



  • “Dear Hiring Manager” is okay(ish.)
  • “Dear [Hiring Manager’s name] is perfect.
  • “Dear Sir or Madam” is stiff, boring, and really old-fashioned.



3. Main Body: The Three-Paragraph Software Engineer Cover Letter Format



  • Begin with “the hook.” Tell your employers a quick story that shows how
    impressive your skills are.
  • Make an offer. Emphasize how your expertise will help solve their problems.
    Use bullet points to outline your achievements.
  • Explain your motivation. Once they understand they want you, they’ll want
    to know why you want them.



4. Call To Action



  • Reiterate your offer and ask them to reach out to you.
  • Gently remind them that you’re not going to be available forever.
  • Don’t write the hackneyed phrase “Thank you for your time and attention.”



5. Formal Closing



  • Use a “sincerely” synonym.
  • Don’t get too informal.
  • Sign-off with your full name



6. The Postscript



  • It works like an eye magnet.
  • Everyone will read it.
  • In it, include something you can’t afford for your prospective employer to
    miss.



(For more information about different cover letter formats, check out this
handy guide: Cover Letter Format: A Complete How-To Guide)



And here’s the one piece of advice that you should apply to all sections of
your software engineering cover letter:



Be specific and precise. Quantify whenever possible. Numbers pop!



So that’s what you should include in your software engineer or software
developer cover letter.



Don’t know how long your cover letter should be for a software engineer
position?



No longer than necessary to show off your best and most relevant wins.



Looking for an exact figure? This will depend on your experience.



Cover letter for a software engineer with 2 years of experience or less
shouldn’t exceed 200 words. Experienced software developer cover letter? Not
much longer. Aim for 300 words, tops.



That’s not a lot for, but it is the proper template for your software developer
cover letter. It will deliver. Afraid that you’re missing something?
Double-check with: What to Include in a Cover Letter (15+ Examples & A Complete
Guide)



Writing an entry-level software engineer cover letter with no experience is
rough. If you need a software engineer cover letter for an internship, you
simply cannot afford to mess it up. Here’s a guide for all you future interns
out there: How to Write a Cover Letter For an Internship [+20 Examples]



One more thing: it’s crucial that you send your cover letter directly to the
hiring manager. If you’re not quite sure how to do it, here’s a guide that’ll
clear it up: How to Address a Cover Letter: Sample & Guide [20+ Examples]



2

How to Grab Recruiters’ Attention with Your Software Engineer Cover Letter
Opening



These few sentences at the beginning of your cover letter are critical.



Get the intro right, and the hiring manager will be excited to read on. Mess it
up, and no one will even cast a glance at the rest of your letter.



How to make the most of your software developer cover letter introduction?



Follow these steps:



Software Engineer Cover Letter Template—Introduction



 1. Begin with Dear + the hiring manager’s name. If you’re applying to a
    company with relaxed office culture, first name will do; if your
    prospective employer is more traditional—go for first and last names.
 2. Mention your impressive achievement and tell a catchy story about it.
    Nothing too fancy—remember Tabitha? That’s how she did it: Two months ago,
    I shattered a record I had previously considered unbreakable.
 3. Make them realize how much they’ll benefit from hiring you.
 4. Personalize. Refer to an important company fact, show your enthusiasm and
    passion for the company’s values, mention current events, or use
    name-dropping if you’ve been referenced.



Want to have a look at how it works in practice?



Check out these very different examples of full-stack software engineer cover
letter intros.



Sample Senior Software Engineer Cover Letter—Opening Paragraph



                                     wrong
To Whom It May Concern,



As a full stack software engineer with 8 years of experience in technical
software development, I’d like to express my interest in applying for the
position of Senior Software Developer with your company.



Perhaps not awful. But—



That’s as if Bill Gates started his cover letter with “I’m a successful
entrepreneur with 40+ years of software engineering experience.” Who’d care?
Instead, he should write…



Well, okay. In his case, I’m Bill Gates, would do the trick.



Since you’re reading this, I’m assuming you’re not Bill Gates. Yet. So here’s
an example of a software engineer cover letter intro that could help you move
your career in the right direction.



Sample Senior Software Engineer Cover Letter—Opening Paragraph



                                     right
Dear Alisson (hiring manager’s name),



A year ago, if you told me I’d cut Cloud Wallop’s security breaches by 73%
(your measurable achievement wrapped up in a compelling narrative), I wouldn’t
believe you. But through resilience and drive for results backed up by thorough
research, you can accomplish even the most uphill tasks. I’m sure that with my
experience and insights I would achieve similar results for Uber (how they’ll
benefit from hiring you.) We’d finally put an end to the recurring negative
press coverage that follows the 2016 data breach (company fact.)



That kind of cover letter opening is going to make the hiring manager call you
in the middle of the night!



What makes it so great?



First of all, the initial storytelling part. It’s intriguing and, at the same
time, super relevant to the job.



Secondly, this computer software developer cover letter intro is focused only
on the employer’s benefits instead of the candidate’s gain. Remember—in your
software engineer cover letter, show the employers that they need you. Not the
other way around.



Finally, it refers to an important company fact. That shows that the candidate
has done his research. It adds this precious personal touch.



Want to see more actionable examples of how to write a cover letter intro that
pulls every reader in? In fact, there are many surefire ways to do it. Learn
them here: How to Start a Cover Letter: Sample & Complete Guide [20+ Examples]



Want to save time and have your resume ready in 5 minutes? Try our resume
builder. It’s fast and easy to use. Plus, you'll get tips and right vs. wrong
 examples while writing your resume. See 20+ resume templates and create your
resume here.



best software engineer resume sample

Software Engineer Resume Example - See +20 resume templates and create your
resume here.



3

Software Engineer Cover Letter—The Main Body



Alright, so you’ve crafted the perfect intro. You’ve got their attention.



Time for the serious sales pitch—the central paragraphs. The make-or-break
moment of your application.



How to get it right?



In a word: personalization.



You need to tailor every cover letter for software engineering positions to the
particular job you’re aiming at.



Remember how our candidate, Tabitha did it?



She applied for a senior software engineering position with a company that
planned to launch new mobile apps.



How did she convince the hiring manager that she’d be the perfect fit?



She went for a three-step formula that you should use in your software engineer
cover letter too!



Software Engineer Cover Letter Template—The Main Body



 1. Point out that you’re aware of your prospective employer’s needs and
    upcoming challenges.
 2. Show how your past experiences match the position’s requirements. It’s a
    good idea to use bullet points here to make your message more concise.
 3. Reiterate the value you’ll bring to the company.



Have a look:



Senior Software Engineer Cover Letter Example



I know your chief focus for the upcoming 18 months will be on developing new
mobile apps for personal finance management (company’s needs.) In my current
position as IT Team Lead with ABC Inc., my primary challenge has been to
supervise the development and design of our mobile and desktop applications
(your relevant experience) for flawless user experience. Here are some of my
most recent results:



  • 3 out of 4 apps I developed in 2017 have been rated above 4.7 stars in both
    AppStore and Google Play.
  • Upgraded premium versions of our products increased quarterly revenue by
    86% in 2017 Q4.
  • New Help Desk solutions cut Customer Effort Scores by 31% (your measurable
    results outlined in bullet-points.)



With more than 10 years of experience in software engineering, I am positive I
can help XYZ Corp achieve similar results (the value you’ll bring to the
company.)



Don’t have Tabitha’s wealth of experience? No matter.



Whether you’re writing a junior software engineering cover letter with 2 year
experience, or even a software engineer cover letter as a fresher, the central
paragraph formula remains the same.



If your best asset is your education, lead with it. Success with freelancing
projects? There you go. Even an impressive Github portfolio can sell you to
potential employers.



Need a sample software engineer cover letter for an entry level position?



Have a look:



Entry Level .Net Software Engineer Cover Letter Example



Since you’re searching for an enthusiastic software engineer with the ability
to develop highly innovative .net applications (company’s needs), I’m happy to
submit my application.



I’ve developed 10+ web and mobile apps, including an award-winning home
security system using Raspberry Pi and a webcam (your relevant experience.)



I’m looking forward to leveraging my enthusiasm, phenomenal time management
skills, and a strong user focus to achieve groundbreaking results with XYZ’s
upcoming projects (the value you’d bring to the company.)



The key thing—



Identify the company’s needs and refer to them in your software engineer cover
letter. Remember: personalization works wonders!



What’s next?



Briefly explain your motivation. This is where you’ll need to flatter them a
bit. Tell your prospective employer what you find valuable in the way they run
their business. Identify the company’s core values and say they’re important to
you too.



Just like our candidate, Tabitha, did. Remember?



Sample Senior Software Engineer Cover Letter—Motivation Statement



End User Satisfaction has always been the single most important KPI for
measuring my teams’ performance. I know that this value is also the cornerstone
of XYZ’s mission and vision—that’s why I was so excited when I first saw your
opening.



Long story short: ask yourself why you want to work there and say it in a
concise sentence.



(But don’t write “I’d like to work with you cause I need the money and, rumor
has it, your paychecks are sky-high,” even if it is the case.)



Hungry for more amazing cover letter tips and easy-to-use hacks? Check out this
cool guide written by my friend Christian: 35+ Successful Cover Letter Tips,
Advice & Guidelines (With Examples)



4

How to End Your Software Engineer Cover Letter to Make It Unforgettable



So far so good. The hiring manager’s reading your cover letter. She’s getting
more and more eager to call you in for an interview.



Don’t squander this opportunity. End your letter in a way that makes it
impossible to forget your application.



Here’s how:



Software Engineer Cover Letter Template—Closing Lines



 1. Include a “call to action:” tell your employers you’d like to meet in
    person to discuss how you can help them achieve their goals. Ask them to
    reach out to you.
 2. Close with a “sincerely” synonym and sign the letter with your full name.
 3. Include a postscript: give a sneak-peek of your impressive achievement and
    say you’d be happy to talk about it in more detail.



Like in our main software engineer cover letter example:



Sample Technical Software Engineer Cover Letter—Ending



When can we schedule a meeting (call to action) and discuss how my success at
ABC can translate into IT Happiness growth for you?



Kind Regards,



Tabitha Hirvanen (formal closing)



P.S.—I would also value the opportunity to tell you how I optimized ABC’s
beta-testing workflow to double the Timely Project Delivery scores (impressive
achievement you’re eager to discuss.)



The gist of it?



Avoid coming off as needy. In your software engineer or software developer
cover letter ending, don’t nag the hiring manager to call you. Make it
irresistible for them to do it.



Need more examples? There you go.



Jr Software Engineer Cover Letter Example—Ending



                                     wrong
I would greatly appreciate if you gave me a chance to show how well I could fit
into your company structure. I am sure I would make a great employee! Just give
me a shot.



All the best,



Mike



Cringe overload, right?



The bottom line is basically: Please, please, please, give me this job!



Sample Embedded Software Engineer Cover Letter—Ending



                                     right
Can we set up a meeting next week and have a chat about how my solar energy
getaway solutions could cut Tesla Energy Software’s expenses by a quarter?



Sincerely yours,



John Eilers



P.S.—My embedded software solutions enhanced efficiency, stability, and
scalability of Hubbell Inc. system resources by 35%. If it sounds interesting
to you, I would love to tell you more about it.



Wow, this guy’s a live wire! I can’t wait to hear his ideas!



This software engineer cover letter ending would make Elon Musk himself say
that.



Why?



Because it provides value. Simple as that.



Still worried that your software engineering cover letter closing won’t be good
enough? Relax. You’ve got a whole lot of mind-blowing advice waiting for you.
All it takes to get it is a single click. Go here and see for yourself: How to
End a Cover Letter: Sample & Complete Guide [20+ Examples]



Key Takeaway



Writing a software engineer or a software developer cover letter that gets you
the job doesn’t have to be hard.



Just follow the key strategies we covered.



Address the hiring manager by his or her name. Get them hooked in your first
paragraph.



Use bullet points to show off your best wins. Be specific and always choose
numbers over descriptions.



Highlight what you’ve got to offer, not what you want out of the job.



Include a postscript after the formal sign-off.



And remember one last thing—



Even the most amazing software engineering cover letter will get you nowhere if
you don’t know how to sell yourself with your software engineer resume.
Luckily, you can learn how to make one in a flash. See our dedicated guide:
Software Engineer Resume: Guide and a Sample [20+ Examples]

Author
Michael Tomaszewski

